# LearningAfter
For the extraordinary academic year 2020-2021:  Inviting learners to rethink their rights &amp; education in the World After

We talk a lot, and rightly so, about the threats to human rights posed by the current pandemic. We would like to draw attention to the risks it poses to the rights of the youngest. The exceptional measures related to Covid-19 have indeed put a significant number of people in great discomfort, all over the world. It is the most socio-economically, culturally, and psychologically fragile ones who are paying the heaviest price today.

With this crisis, access to learning must, in particular, be questioned and redesigned. At the climax of the pandemic, the sudden school and university closure affected more than 1.5 billion young people. For those who do not have computer equipment, web access or books at home, who cannot work quietly, who do not have family support for the class at home or who had already dropped out a little, or a lot, because of personal or family problems, it's even more difficult. In some countries, as other recent crises had shown, girls are likely to be the first victims of dropping out of school, which would be an unacceptable regression.
 
Conditions for returning to class are also problematic, with rules of physical distance - in and out of the classroom - imposed for health reasons, not to mention many questions about the future that will add to the individual and collective anguish. Not only do we have to reshape school and university as soon as students resume classes - and they will not do it at the same time depending on where they live -,  but we urgently need to to prepare now for the start of the autumn 2020 school year. Not only to anticipate the consequences of the current crisis, but also, in a structural way, so that the extraordinary situation experienced by young people gives them the opportunity to think about how to learn to meet the challenges of our time, and restore trust in institutions.

In the Catts Pressoir high school in Haïti, pupils get involved in the development of their local community; through the Design for change disposal in India and The Savanturiers at CRI Paris, young people design solutions or set-up research projects with academic mentors; in the Lobby de Poissy near Paris teenagers from underprivileged suburbs engage for the rights of the planet with their european peers…  there are so many examples which bring to light how far young people are actresses and actors and full-fledged players in our societies. They are the future. They must, therefore, be allowed to express their vision of this future, using their collective imagination to write, in particular, a new story about school, from kindergarten to university. They should be invited to invent ways of learning, in collaboration with the previous generations but also independently, in order to appropriate the knowledge acquired, to empower themselves at their own pace.

It is up to young people to invent the future of learning

So as to design an extraordinary school and academic year, why not taking seriously our leaders when they see in the Covid-19 crisis a chance to reinvent ourselves and create solidarity. Such a project will not be thought of, will not be built without the youth and education will undoubtedly be part of it. In many countries, young people are already highly mobilized on a wide range of subjects, notably the fight against climate change and the preservation of biodiversity, as shown by “Fridays for Future”. They should pursue their commitment in new frameworks for the school of tomorrow.

If it is our responsibility to accompany them in this transition, it is up to the younger generations to invent and co-create the change they want to see. "What if" they take up this challenge? "What if" they allowed themselves to propose suitable learning contexts and conditions? What if they define their needs, their expectations, their vision of the school, the university and the society of tomorrow? Places that may be more attentive to their well-being and ideas, will value all their skills, will invite them to collaborate, to show their commitment to their work, their community, their environment and society. They would develop empathy, mutual aid, solidarity, sharing, curiosity, without being less demanding on the level of knowledge to be acquired. And it is also the role of teachers that needs to be rethought, and in any case more highly valued, better recognized; teachers should too be consulted on what they have to propose.

Such issues are part of the more open questions about international rights of the youth. 
A report of the  WHO and UNICEF Lancet commission, published in February 2020 and entitled "A Future for the World's Children?", explains how the health of children all over the world is at risk due to pollution, climate change and chronic diseases linked to stress, addiction and over-consumption. It calls for a rewriting of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including the fourth one, access to quality education as a children's right.

#Defending a right to education

On the occasion of the Covid-19 crisis, which reveals and amplifies inequalities in learning, and which UNICEF fears could become a crisis of children's rights, we should underline that education is a right of prime necessity for young people, including the right to imagine and co-construct its outlines.

Before the pandemic, UNESCO had launched a global initiative to think about the futures of education - the plural form means that we can invent, choose and build them. Such an initiative is now urgent, as we experience an unprecedented break in the history of education and yet we have designed alternative ways to learn, to help each other and to create ways to share knowledge. We therefore propose to set up a participatory online consultation on education in the World After, open above all to the new generations, from the earliest age. A stimulating challenge, an incentive to be bold for all those who want to have their say on what will be their role tomorrow.
